- We talked about a couple of the potential issues
with databases from other perspectives,
but databases and other backing services are used
in multiple ways in targeted attacks.
Let's start our discussion once again
with SQL injection attacks.
I mentioned these attacks when we discussed
user input validation and indeed that is a good
mitigation for these attacks.
Another good mitigation is the frameworks
and strategies that we use to connect to databases.
SQL statements should include bind variables and parameters.
Now, you can write full statements or use bind variables.
Creating full statements
is susceptible to injection attacks
because those statements are often concatenated
with user input strings like in our previous example.
But, when you use bind variables and parameters,
you remove that risk because of how the drivers
will create the statement for you
and escape the dangerous behavior.
Using a bind variable allows you to place a variable
in the statement where you expect
the user input to be added.
For instance, select star from user,
where username equals some bind variable.
Then, we will execute the statement by passing a parameter
for a bind variable from the validated user input.
This strategy dramatically reduces any risk
of injection attacks.
Databases have other issues and one goes back
to Secure communication channels.
Often, database connection strings are performed
using plain text communication channels.
If you own the database client code, its runtime,
the network, and the database system,
and all of the hardware involved, you may be tempted
to think you aren't at risk.
We must, however, consider that all too often the internal
user is the most dangerous attacker in a company.
The proper way to connect to database systems
is through secured channels.
Most, if not all databases, allow for encrypted
communication between the client and the server.
Yes, there is more configuration for both the DBA
and the developer, but not having a way for someone
to sniff the traffic on the line is worth it.
If an attacker comes from the inside,
they can simply sniff the line instead
of attacking the application itself.
As a developer, you must ensure you are only using
secured connections to databases.
Databases also often contain sensitive information.
Now, disk level, or table level encryption of the database
does offer some value.
But, they really don't protect the data in the database.
The only way to truly protect the data from an attacker
is through the use of application level encryption.
If the application itself is handling the encryption,
assuming cryptal operations are being done correctly,
then you know that you're providing the best protection
to the underlying data from a potential attacker.
Databases are valuable to developers for many clear reasons.
And as such they are great targets for attackers.
Consider this when you interact with databases
and apply some good practices.